SpaceX just sent three space weather probes to the final frontier.

A Falcon 9 rocket lifted off from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida today (Sept. 24) at 7:30 a.m. EDT (1130 GMT), carrying NASA's IMAP mission and and two other spacecraft.

Each probe has its own objectives, but all three will work toward the same larger goal: help scientists better understand space weather and its effects on Earth.

You may like
A large metal cylinder covered with black plastic is stood between blue scaffolding.
NASA's IMAP spacecraft getting packed up for launch | Space photo of the day for Sept. 24, 2025
NASA’s Interstellar Mapping and Acceleration Probe (IMAP) spacecraft has completed a critical design review and is on track for its scheduled 2025 launch.
SpaceX targets Sept. 23 for launch of NASA's IMAP mission to map the boundaries of our solar system
From left to right, NASA’s Carruthers Geocorona Observatory, IMAP (Interstellar Mapping and Acceleration Probe), and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Space Weather Follow On-Lagrange 1 (SWFO-L1) missions will map our Sun’s influence across the solar system in new ways.
Watch SpaceX launch 3 space weather probes today
Image 1 of 3
SpaceX launch Sept. 24. rocket just lifting off from a launch pad
SpaceX Falcon 9 launch of three satellites on Sept. 24, 2025.(Image credit: NASA)

SpaceX launch Sept. 24. rocket seen against a background of clouds
SpaceX Falcon 9 launch of three satellites on Sept. 24, 2025.(Image credit: NASA)

SpaceX launch Sept. 24. view from space shows earth in the background.
SpaceX Falcon 9 launch of three satellites on Sept. 24, 2025.(Image credit: NASA)

They're also all headed to the same place — the sun-Earth Lagrange Point 1, a gravitationally stable spot about 930,000 miles (1.5 million kilometers) from Earth, in the direction of our star.

IMAP (short for "Interstellar Mapping and Acceleration Probe") is the primary payload on today's flight. The roughly $600 million spacecraft carries 10 different science instruments, which it will use to monitor solar activity as well as study interstellar dust and the solar wind, the stream of charged particles flowing continuously from our sun.

The mission's data will also help scientists map the outer boundary of the heliosphere, the vast bubble around our solar system that's dominated by the sun's solar wind and magnetic field.

IMAP will also provide radiation warnings for astronauts — for example, those with NASA's Artemis program, which aims to establish a sustained human presence on and around the moon over the next decade or so.